did you know that you are doing things
that are hurting your traffic hey
everyone i'm neil patel and today i'm
going to break down 10 small things on
your website that's ruining your traffic
and how to remove these today
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
first one forgotten no index tags
if you ever have anything on your pages
in the header that just tell google hey
don't index this page and you're
wondering hmm
why is this page not getting any traffic
it could be because you have no index
text and even if you didn't add them
manually what you'll find is a lot of
the platforms out there from wordpress
to some of the e-commerce platforms out
there usually you can now index pages
with literally a click of a button or a
check mark and someone on your team may
have done it unintentionally and it can
be hurting your traffic so just double
check on your top pages that you think
you should get traffic and just make
sure it lines up with what's really
happening
number two thin content
if you write a lot of thin content
you're just not going to rank well
there are over a billion blogs on the
web google has their prime pickings of
content they're not struggling to figure
out what content that they should end up
ranking what they want to do is rate the
good stuff and ignore the crap and if
you have thin content unless you're
writing articles on how to tie a tie
which more so should be images or
animated gifs or videos right unless
your content's around topics like that
the chances are thin content isn't gonna
do well for you it doesn't mean that you
need five thousand word articles or even
2 300 or 10 000 word articles more so
you just need to make sure that you're
covering every single aspect of the
article that helps someone get what they
need if you're not doing that then your
content is then it's not about length
it's about value that you're providing
and if you can do that 500 words then
you're good if you can do that in 2000
words then you're good and if it takes
five ten thousand words that's fine as
well but the key is to be super thorough
the third one is excessive anchor text
rich links especially from an internal
basis
so years and years ago when i started
seo and i wanted to rank for terms like
online marketing i would take a lot of
my other pages and just use the text
online marketing and link to that online
marketing page that i wanted to rank
higher but if all your pages have the
same anchor text for the term online
marketing or whatever term you're trying
to go after what do you think it tells
google hey this isn't natural why would
every single link internally and even
externally have the same anchor text it
shouldn't it needs to be natural some of
your anchor texts will say click here
learn more they may even say other words
like digital marketing which are related
to online marketing it needs to be
natural whatever is best for the user
four
you don't want high resolution
non-compressed images high resolution
images are great but if they're not
compressed you're not going to do as
well from google image search image
search can drive so much traffic
especially for industries like travel so
if you're not leveraging that
you're missing out so make sure you have
high resolution images high in quality
but they're compressed from a file size
standpoint that will help with your
rankings
five irrelevant and your intrusive
pop-up ads so if you have pop-ups
throughout your whole site and it ruins
the experience you're not going to do as
well on my site i have pop-ups and
you're probably like neil but you have
pop-ups if the puppet provides value and
they're getting more value than the
intrusion effect that you're causing
you're good to go but if it doesn't and
it's just ads and something that just
ruins the experience and doesn't provide
any value
you got an issue and you may want to
reconsider your pop-ups either remove
them or try to provide way more value
the sixth thing is pages with errors
whether they're 400 errors or 500 errors
make sure you fix them and you can go to
ubersuggest and type in your url in the
site auto report it'll point out a lot
of those 400 or 500 errors and you
should fix those the seventh one is
redirect loops
a lot of times you're going to remove
old pages or consolidate content and
you're going to use 301 redirects but
when you do these through redirects what
happens with a lot of businesses they'll
redirect one page to another and then
that page eventually they'll delete and
then they'll redirect it back to another
page or back to the original page so
then you just have a 301 redirect loop
and you don't want that that's just
going to hurt your traffic so anytime
you do 301 redirects make sure they're
not in loops and don't do 301 redirects
to urls that are redirecting to another
url just make them go straight to the
last url that you're redirecting people
with and if you have to update all your
old 301 redirects make sure you do that
eight orphan pages these are pages that
don't get linked anywhere internally you
can have the most amazing piece of
content but if no one knows about it
doesn't matter you're not going to get
any rankings from it so just make sure
that you're interlinking relevant pages
to your amazing content you don't want
orphan pages if you do that what you'll
find is spent all this time money
creating this content making it so
beautiful and visually appealing and
then
no one ends up seeing it so make sure
you add the internal links
on my team what we do is anytime we
publish new content we link to it
through three old pieces of content and
we find the most relevant ones sometimes
we can't do three sometimes it's only
one link or two links sometimes this
four
but by doing that we're ensuring that
our new content also ranks really well
number nine links to redirected pages
when you have internal links and those
pages are redirecting you want to fix
them change those old internal links and
link them to the right and place your
internal links should not be going
redirected so anytime you add 301
redirects or 302 redirects change up the
internal links
number 10 internal broken links and this
is the last one look as your site gets
older your business gets more
established you're gonna have broken
links it's natural everyone does just
make sure you clean them out once a
quarter that's what we do you can use
tools like ubersuggest the site audit
report will break down the broken
internal links and just fix them
if you need help with any of these
tactics to grow your traffic check out
my ad agency np digital or if you
enjoyed the video like it share if you
have any questions leave a comment below
i'm here to help